[docs] KubeRay IPPR User Guide (#63212)
ray-project/ray: doc/source/cluster/kubernetes/user-guides/configuring-ippr.md

> (kuberay-ippr)=

Reviewer: I would avoid the `ippr` abbreviation in links, just use `kuberay-in-place-pod-resizing`

Author: Done in https://github.com/ray-project/ray/pull/63212/commits/27ec52d2dd0005e98bf89b0918a43ed572e57bf8

# KubeRay In-Place Pod Resizing (IPPR)

> This guide explains how to configure In-Place Pod Resizing (IPPR) for the Ray Autoscaler on Kubernetes 1.35+.

Reviewer 2: lol this is one of the worst comments I've seen from AI

ETA: It's showing up weirdly in github UI but I left this comment as a reply to an AI-generated comment, not trying to insult your doc...

> This guide explains how to configure In-Place Pod Resizing (IPPR) for the Ray Autoscaler on Kubernetes 1.35+.

Reviewer: This line should also mention the Ray version (>=2.56?)

IPPR allows the Ray Autoscaler to vertically resize running worker Pods (CPU and memory) without needing to restart them or launch new Pods, avoiding application disruption.

```{admonition} Alpha feature
:class: warning

> IPPR is still an alpha feature — the initial integration of Kubernetes [In-Place Pod Resize](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/configure-pod-container/resize-container-resources/) with the Ray Autoscaler.

Reviewer 2: I think you may want to rephrase this to clarify that IPPR itself is not alpha; its the integration with Ray that is still alpha.

```suggestion
Ray Austocaler integration with [In-Place Pod Resize](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/configure-pod-container/resize-container-resources/) is still an alpha feature.
```

Author: done with https://github.com/ray-project/ray/pull/63212/commits/a8801acaa5c353c2f829c17ec604c049e9b8b5cb

APIs and behavior may change in future releases.
```

## Overview

Without IPPR, the Ray Autoscaler scales horizontally only: when pending tasks, actors, or placement groups can't fit on existing Ray worker nodes, the Autoscaler launches new worker Pods. If the underlying Kubernetes cluster doesn't have capacity for those Pods, the [Kubernetes Cluster Autoscaler](https://github.com/kubernetes/autoscaler/tree/master/cluster-autoscaler) (which you configure separately) can in turn provision new Kubernetes nodes. See {ref}`the 3 levels of autoscaling in KubeRay for more details <kuberay-autoscaling>`.

> With IPPR, the Autoscaler can first try to satisfy pending demand by *resizing* existing worker Pods up to a per-group maximum, and only falls back to launching new Pods when in-place resizing isn't sufficient.

Reviewer 2: suggest linking somewhere to upstream kubernetes documentation on what pod resize just in case someone reading this isn't already familiar

maybe just a short subsection that just says "For background in the IPPR feature, see [link to upstream docs]"

Author: Added in https://github.com/ray-project/ray/pull/63212/commits/a8801acaa5c353c2f829c17ec604c049e9b8b5cb

```

The Autoscaler's high-level behavior with IPPR enabled is:

1. After bin-packing pending tasks onto existing Ray worker nodes at their current capacity, the Autoscaler tries to bin-pack remaining demand onto Ray worker nodes that have no ongoing resize, this time using their *maximum* capacity. If a Ray worker node can absorb more demand by resizing, the Autoscaler issues a Kubernetes resize request for that node's Pod and records the status in the `ray.io/ippr-status` annotation on the Pod.
2. If demand still remains, the Autoscaler falls back to horizontal scale-out, taking each worker group's maximum capacity into account.
3. On the next reconciliation, the Autoscaler checks each in-flight resize:

   * If the resize succeeded, the Autoscaler updates the Raylet's logical resources to match the new Pod size and updates `ray.io/ippr-status` accordingly.
   * If the resize timed out or errored, the Autoscaler queues a new Kubernetes resize request to adjust the Pod (for example, rolling it back to its previous size after a timeout, as shown in [Case 4](#case-4-resize-timeout-and-rollback)).

## Prerequisites

> * **Kubernetes 1.35 or later.** In-Place Pod Resize graduated to GA in Kubernetes 1.35. See [kubernetes/enhancements#5562](https://github.com/kubernetes/enhancements/pull/5562).

Author: This is incorrect lol

> * **Kubernetes 1.35 or later.** In-Place Pod Resize graduated to GA in Kubernetes 1.35. See [kubernetes/enhancements#5562](https://github.com/kubernetes/enhancements/pull/5562).

Reviewer: Is there a blog post we can reference instead?

Author: Yes done in https://github.com/ray-project/ray/pull/63212/commits/b529bdc1351d8aaa9b0d102bcbce151bc5fc4055

> * **Kubernetes 1.35 or later.** In-Place Pod Resize graduated to GA in Kubernetes 1.35. See the Kubernetes blog post [In-Place Pod Resize Graduates to Stable](https://kubernetes.io/blog/2025/12/19/kubernetes-v1-35-in-place-pod-resize-ga/).

Reviewer 2: I think maybe better to specify that ippr is available as on-by-default /beta starting in kubernetes 1.33 and GA'd in 1.35

not everyone can upgrade to the latest k8s version immediately, but they can still try the feature

Author: Good point thanks https://github.com/ray-project/ray/pull/63212/commits/192c4e2b774efe9d26f6d3d669786bbce981dd4a

> * **KubeRay** with support for the `ray.io/ippr` annotation (TODO: will be v1.7.0).

Author: Should I say v1.7.0 for KubeRay or not yet?

> * **KubeRay** with support for the `ray.io/ippr` annotation (TODO: will be v1.7.0).

Reviewer 3: YES, actually 1.5 support already support it.
https://github.com/ray-project/kuberay/pull/3960

> * **KubeRay** with support for the `ray.io/ippr` annotation (TODO: will be v1.7.0).

Reviewer 3: cc @alimaazamat

> * **KubeRay** with support for the `ray.io/ippr` annotation (TODO: will be v1.7.0).

Author: I pinned it to v1.5.0, I wasn't able to see if it was merged in a patch release or not on the releases page. https://github.com/ray-project/ray/pull/63212/commits/ad1abfe0883aaa2ae5d9bb9acb5bcb57d55545e4

> * **KubeRay** with support for the `ray.io/ippr` annotation (TODO: will be v1.7.0).

Reviewer 3: it was, here's the proof.
https://github.com/ray-project/kuberay/blob/v1.5.0/ray-operator/controllers/ray/common/rbac.go#L45

you can go to tag in kuberay repo to check

<img width="1050" height="733" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/c25d318c-0844-4a15-8e14-b0766f2a7aa8" />

> * **KubeRay** with support for the `ray.io/ippr` annotation (TODO: will be v1.7.0).

Author: @Future-Outlier Oh okay thanks so much! I was looking for the # 3960 in here https://github.com/ray-project/kuberay/releases but it's not included in the changelog lists, is it because it wasn't a user facing change yet?

> * **KubeRay** with support for the `ray.io/ippr` annotation (TODO: will be v1.7.0).

Reviewer 3: we didn't mention it because the ray core side hasn't merged the IPPR's feature

* **Ray Autoscaler V2** enabled on the RayCluster. See {ref}`kuberay-autoscaler-v2`.

## Configuration

> Enable IPPR by setting the `ray.io/ippr` annotation on the RayCluster custom resource. The annotation value is a JSON document keyed by worker `groupName`:

Reviewer: @rueian are we still planning to use the annotation route instead of expanding `autoscalerOptions`? Is the annotation temporary during alpha or permenant direction?

Reviewer 4: I think we will have a subset of ippr fields in the `autoscalerOptions` when the integration is GA, but I'd still like to keep the annotation around so that we can break and evolve things there.

```text
{
  "groups": {
    "<groupName>": {
      "max-cpu":        string|number,
      "max-memory":     string|integer,
      "resize-timeout": integer
    }
  }
}
```

`<groupName>` must match a `groupName` under `workerGroupSpecs` on the RayCluster. Each entry has the following required fields:

* **`max-cpu`**: The maximum CPU the Autoscaler may resize a Pod in this group to. Accepts any [Kubernetes CPU quantity](https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/kubernetes-api/common-definitions/quantity/), for example `"2"` or `"1500m"`.
* **`max-memory`**: The maximum memory the Autoscaler may resize a Pod in this group to. Accepts any Kubernetes memory quantity, for example `"8Gi"` or `2147483648` (raw bytes).

> * **`resize-timeout`**: Number of seconds to wait for a Kubernetes Pod resize to complete before considering it timed out and rolling it back.

Reviewer 2: can you specify whether these fields are required or optional? if optional, what is the default behavior when unset?

Author: All are required. "Each entry has the following required fields:" before that, but lmk if more verbose per field would be better

Reviewer 2: Oh sorry I just missed it - thanks!

```text
T1: WorkerGroup1=[{CPU: 1, Available: 1}]   Pending=[{CPU: 2}]
    -> Resize attempt:
       WorkerGroup1=[{CPU: 1 -> 4, Available: 1 -> 4}]

T2: (resize times out)
    -> Roll back the resize and scale out:
       WorkerGroup1=[{CPU: 4 -> 1, Available: 4 -> 1}, {CPU: 1, Available: 1}]

T3: WorkerGroup1=[{CPU: 1, Available: 1}, {CPU: 1, Available: 1}]   Pending=[{CPU: 2}]
    -> Try resizing the second worker:
       WorkerGroup1=[{CPU: 1, Available: 1}, {CPU: 1 -> 4, Available: 1 -> 4}]

T4: WorkerGroup1=[{CPU: 1, Available: 1}, {CPU: 4, Available: 2}]   Pending=[]
```

## Observability

In-flight and recent resize state for each worker Pod is recorded in the `ray.io/ippr-status` annotation on the Pod. You can inspect it with `kubectl`:

```bash
kubectl get pod <worker-pod> -o jsonpath='{.metadata.annotations.ray\.io/ippr-status}'
```

For example, after a successful resize, `resizing-at: null` means no resize is in flight and `last-failed-at: null` means the most recent attempt succeeded:

```json
{
  "resizing-at": null,
  "last-failed-at": null,
  "last-failed-reason": null
}
```

> You can watch the live container `requests`/`limits` change as the Autoscaler resizes Pods in place:

Reviewer 2: At first I wasn't sure whether to leave this comment if the guidance for the user is to prefer looking at annotations only managed by Ray. But if we are going to direct users to observe the resize progression by looking at other fields on the pod then yes they can look at the resource values directly but it is more useful to read the resize status in the pod conditions:

https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/configure-pod-container/resize-container-resources/#pod-resize-status

Even more useful is to just call `kubectl describe pod` which will display the resource events for that pod (when the resize started, when it was accepted, when it completes, or if there are any errors)

Author: Yeah, I like this suggestion a lot more thanks! I tried it out with kind cluster and got the output format and committed here: https://github.com/ray-project/ray/pull/63212/commits/bba9e25b04a016621d61ee3275b23f925cb1e849
 
The only thing is that it that doesn't include the reason and message in `k describe pod` for `PodResizePending` True (but it does include it if it was successful). Do you think that granular of instructions is necessary? I'm thinking it's fair for the user to understand that if it has unexpected `PodResizePending` then they need to debug. Also this PodResizePending behavior and debugging for why, is a kubernetes upstream behavior not specific to IPPR. So I added a line just referencing the upstream docs.

But I could also give more instructions on how to get the message and reason like

> To see the `reason` and `message` (which `describe` doesn't print), use
> ```
> `kubectl get pod -o jsonpath`:
> 
> ```bash
> kubectl get pod resize-demo -o jsonpath='{.status.conditions[?(@.type=="PodResizePending")]}'
> ```
> 
> ```json
> {
>   "lastProbeTime": "",
>   "lastTransitionTime": ",
>   "message": "Node didn't have enough capacity: cpu, requested: X, capacity: Y",
>   "observedGeneration": 3,
>   "reason": "Infeasible",
>   "status": "True",
>   "type": "PodResizePending"
> }
> ```
>

Reviewer 2: I like the way you phrased it in your update. Thanks!

```bash
kubectl get pods \
  -o='custom-columns=NAME:.metadata.name,STATUS:.status.phase,CPU_LIMIT:.spec.containers[0].resources.limits.cpu,CPU_REQUEST:.spec.containers[0].resources.requests.cpu' \
  -w
```

For example, after a worker is resized in place from 1 CPU to 4 CPU, the same Pod (no new name, no restart) shows the new request and limit:

```text
NAME                                       STATUS    CPU_LIMIT   CPU_REQUEST
raycluster-ippr-head-z48rk                 Running   1           1
raycluster-ippr-small-group-worker-kkzm5   Running   4           4
```

For Autoscaler-level observability such as `ray status -v` and Autoscaler logs, see {ref}`kuberay-autoscaler-v2`.

## Limitations

* **Resize-up only.** The current implementation can only scale workers up to the configured maximum. Gradual resizing and downsizing will be added in future releases.

> * **CPU and memory only.** Other resources, including GPUs, can't be resized in place.

Reviewer 2: This might be a good spot to just say that any limitations that ippr has in upstream kubernetes also apply here, and link to the upstream docs: https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/configure-pod-container/resize-container-resources/#limitations

Author: Done in https://github.com/ray-project/ray/pull/63212/commits/a8801acaa5c353c2f829c17ec604c049e9b8b5cb

(kuberay-in-place-pod-resizing)=

# KubeRay In-Place Pod Resizing (IPPR)

> This guide explains how to configure In-Place Pod Resizing (IPPR) for the Ray Autoscaler on Kubernetes 1.33+.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
This guide explains how to configure In-Place Pod Resizing (IPPR) for the Ray Autoscaler on Kubernetes 1.35+.
```
We now require IPPR GA

> IPPR allows the Ray Autoscaler to vertically resize running worker Pods (CPU and memory) without needing to restart them or launch new Pods, avoiding application disruption.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
IPPR allows the Ray Autoscaler to vertically resize running Pods (CPU and memory) to change the cluster capacity.
```

1. IPPR isn't limited to worker Pods. Head Pod can be resized as well.
2. Even without IPPR, autoscaler won't introduce disruption. So, probably just don't mention disruption.

```

The Autoscaler's high-level behavior with IPPR enabled is:

1. After bin-packing pending tasks onto existing Ray worker nodes at their current capacity, the Autoscaler tries to bin-pack remaining demand onto Ray worker nodes that have no ongoing resize, this time using their *maximum* capacity. If a Ray worker node can absorb more demand by resizing, the Autoscaler issues a Kubernetes resize request for that node's Pod and records the status in the `ray.io/ippr-status` annotation on the Pod.
2. If demand still remains, the Autoscaler falls back to horizontal scale-out, taking each worker group's maximum capacity into account.
3. On the next reconciliation, the Autoscaler checks each in-flight resize:

   * If the resize succeeded, the Autoscaler updates the Raylet's logical resources to match the new Pod size and updates `ray.io/ippr-status` accordingly.
   * If the resize timed out or errored, the Autoscaler queues a new Kubernetes resize request to adjust the Pod (for example, rolling it back to its previous size after a timeout, as shown in [Case 4](#case-4-resize-timeout-and-rollback)).

## Prerequisites

> * **Kubernetes 1.33 or later.** In-Place Pod Resize is enabled by default starting in Kubernetes 1.33 ([beta](https://kubernetes.io/blog/2025/05/16/kubernetes-v1-33-in-place-pod-resize-beta/)) and graduated to GA in Kubernetes 1.35 ([blog post](https://kubernetes.io/blog/2025/12/19/kubernetes-v1-35-in-place-pod-resize-ga/)).

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
* **Kubernetes 1.35 or later.** In-Place Pod Resize graduated to GA in Kubernetes 1.35 ([blog post](https://kubernetes.io/blog/2025/12/19/kubernetes-v1-35-in-place-pod-resize-ga/)).
```

* **KubeRay v1.5.0 or later.**
* **Ray Autoscaler V2** enabled on the RayCluster. See {ref}`kuberay-autoscaler-v2`.

## Configuration

Enable IPPR by setting the `ray.io/ippr` annotation on the RayCluster custom resource. The annotation value is a JSON document keyed by worker `groupName`:

```text
{
  "groups": {
    "<groupName>": {
      "max-cpu":        string|number,
      "max-memory":     string|integer,
      "resize-timeout": integer
    }
  }
}
```

`<groupName>` must match a `groupName` under `workerGroupSpecs` on the RayCluster. Each entry has the following required fields:

* **`max-cpu`**: The maximum CPU the Autoscaler may resize a Pod in this group to. Accepts any [Kubernetes CPU quantity](https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/kubernetes-api/common-definitions/quantity/), for example `"2"` or `"1500m"`.
* **`max-memory`**: The maximum memory the Autoscaler may resize a Pod in this group to. Accepts any Kubernetes memory quantity, for example `"8Gi"` or `2147483648` (raw bytes).
* **`resize-timeout`**: Number of seconds to wait for a Kubernetes Pod resize to complete before considering it timed out and rolling it back.

### Validation rules

> In addition to the schema above, the Ray Autoscaler validates the following requirements when IPPR is enabled for a worker group. If validation fails, the Autoscaler raises an error during reconciliation (visible in the head Pod logs and via `ray status`) and will refuse to launch worker Pods for the misconfigured group until the RayCluster is updated accordingly.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
In addition to the schema above, the Ray Autoscaler validates the following requirements when IPPR is enabled for a worker group. If validation fails, the Autoscaler raises an error during reconciliation (visible in the autoscaler logs in the head Pod) and will refuse to launch worker Pods for the misconfigured group until the RayCluster is updated accordingly.
```

1. **No CPU/memory in `rayStartParams`.** The corresponding worker group must not set `num-cpus` or `memory` in `rayStartParams`. Hard-coding logical resources there would cause Ray's view of the node's capacity to drift from the Pod's physical resources after a resize.
2. **CPU and memory requests are required.** The Ray container in the worker group must specify both `cpu` and `memory` under `resources.requests`.

> 3. **`resizePolicy` must use `restartPolicy: NotRequired`.** That's the Kubernetes default, so leaving `resizePolicy` unset is fine. Setting it to `RestartContainer` is rejected because IPPR resizes the container in place.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
3. **`resizePolicy` must use `restartPolicy: NotRequired`.** That's the Kubernetes default, so leaving `resizePolicy` unset is fine. Setting it to `RestartContainer`, which causes the container to be restarted, is not yet supported by Ray.
```

this is just a nit, but to be precise with the language, setting `RestartContainer` is still resizing the pod in-place; it just happens to restart the container

Author: [150c2e3](https://github.com/ray-project/ray/pull/63212/commits/150c2e326f1eb376249866ee08d380b4ad8980e1)

## Example

The following RayCluster excerpt enables IPPR for a worker group `small-group` whose Pods start at 1 CPU / 1Gi and may be resized up to 4 CPU / 4Gi.

```yaml
apiVersion: ray.io/v1
kind: RayCluster
metadata:
  name: raycluster-ippr
  annotations:
    ray.io/ippr: |
      {
        "groups": {
          "small-group": {
            "max-cpu": "4",
            "max-memory": "4Gi",
            "resize-timeout": 60
          }
        }
      }
spec:
  enableInTreeAutoscaling: true
  autoscalerOptions:
    # IPPR requires Autoscaler V2.

>     version: v2

Reviewer 4: I'd like to suggest a shorter `AUTOSCALER_UPDATE_INTERVAL_S`. The default is 5s, which may be too long for IPPR.

```suggestion
    version: v2
    env:
      - name: AUTOSCALER_UPDATE_INTERVAL_S
        value: "1"
```

  headGroupSpec:
    rayStartParams:
      num-cpus: "0"
    template:
      spec:
        containers:
        - name: ray-head
          # IPPR isn't in a stable Ray release yet; use a nightly image.

>           image: rayproject/ray:nightly

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
          image: rayproject/ray:2.56.0
```
ray:2.56.0 will be out soon.

          "small-group": {
            "max-cpu": "4",
            "max-memory": "4Gi",
            "resize-timeout": 60
          }
        }
      }
spec:
  enableInTreeAutoscaling: true
  autoscalerOptions:
    # IPPR requires Autoscaler V2.
    version: v2
    env:
    - name: AUTOSCALER_UPDATE_INTERVAL_S
      value: "1"
  headGroupSpec:
    rayStartParams:
      num-cpus: "0"
    template:
      spec:
        containers:
        - name: ray-head
          image: rayproject/ray:2.56.0
          resources:
            requests:
              cpu: "1"
              memory: "4Gi"
            limits:
              cpu: "1"
              memory: "4Gi"
  workerGroupSpecs:
  - groupName: small-group
    replicas: 1
    minReplicas: 1
    maxReplicas: 10
    # Note: do NOT set num-cpus or memory in rayStartParams when using IPPR.
    rayStartParams: {}
    template:
      spec:
        containers:
        - name: ray-worker
          image: rayproject/ray:2.56.0
          # CPU and memory requests are required for IPPR.
          resources:
            requests:
              cpu: "1"
              memory: "1Gi"
            limits:
              cpu: "1"
              memory: "1Gi"

>           # `resizePolicy` is omitted; IPPR requires the default

Reviewer: Can you omit the entire `resizePolicy` or just `resizePolicy[*].restartPolicy`?

Reviewer: ah seems like you only set `resizePolicy` if you need to configure the `restartPolicy`. `resizePolicy`is not required to enable in-place pod resizing

(kuberay-in-place-pod-resizing)=

# KubeRay In-Place Pod Resizing (IPPR)

This guide explains how to configure In-Place Pod Resizing (IPPR) for the Ray Autoscaler on Kubernetes 1.33+.
IPPR allows the Ray Autoscaler to vertically resize running worker Pods (CPU and memory) without needing to restart them or launch new Pods, avoiding application disruption.

```{admonition} Alpha feature

> :class: warning

Reviewer 2: nit / feel free to ignore: This shows up in github UI in a way I didn't expect (just having this text as-is). I notice similar things with the {ref} below, etc.

(I'm looking at https://github.com/alimaazamat/ray/blob/bba9e25b04a016621d61ee3275b23f925cb1e849/doc/source/cluster/kubernetes/user-guides/configuring-ippr.md)

Is it supposed to render differently? If these docs are meant to be read somewhere else (like on separate a website) then the github rendering doesn't matter, just thought it looked a little odd

Author: This is for Ray docs website, I've been locally rendering to verify (use https://github.com/alimaazamat/ray/blob/ippr-docs/doc/README.md#L11)
But just to give you reassurance that does show up in other places for example https://github.com/alimaazamat/ray/blob/master/doc/source/cluster/kubernetes/user-guides/kubectl-plugin.md?plain=1#L17

Ray Autoscaler integration with Kubernetes [In-Place Pod Resize](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/configure-pod-container/resize-container-resources/) is still an alpha feature.
APIs and behavior may change in future releases.
```

## Overview

For background on the underlying Kubernetes feature, see [Resize CPU and Memory Resources assigned to Containers](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/configure-pod-container/resize-container-resources/) in the Kubernetes documentation.

Without IPPR, the Ray Autoscaler scales horizontally only: when pending tasks, actors, or placement groups can't fit on existing Ray worker nodes, the Autoscaler launches new worker Pods. If the underlying Kubernetes cluster doesn't have capacity for those Pods, the [Kubernetes Cluster Autoscaler](https://github.com/kubernetes/autoscaler/tree/master/cluster-autoscaler) (which you configure separately) can in turn provision new Kubernetes nodes. See {ref}`the 3 levels of autoscaling in KubeRay for more details <kuberay-autoscaling>`.

> With IPPR, the Autoscaler can first try to satisfy pending demand by *resizing* existing worker Pods up to a per-group maximum, and only falls back to launching new Pods when in-place resizing isn't sufficient.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
With IPPR, the Autoscaler can first try to satisfy pending demand by *resizing* existing worker Pods without restarting them up to a per-group maximum, and only falls back to launching new Pods when in-place resizing isn't sufficient.
```

* **KubeRay v1.5.0 or later.**
* **Ray Autoscaler V2** enabled on the RayCluster. See {ref}`kuberay-autoscaler-v2`.

## Configuration

Enable IPPR by setting the `ray.io/ippr` annotation on the RayCluster custom resource. The annotation value is a JSON document keyed by worker `groupName`:

```text
{
  "groups": {
    "<groupName>": {
      "max-cpu":        string|number,
      "max-memory":     string|integer,
      "resize-timeout": integer
    }
  }
}
```

`<groupName>` must match a `groupName` under `workerGroupSpecs` on the RayCluster. Each entry has the following required fields:

* **`max-cpu`**: The maximum CPU the Autoscaler may resize a Pod in this group to. Accepts any [Kubernetes CPU quantity](https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/kubernetes-api/common-definitions/quantity/), for example `"2"` or `"1500m"`.
* **`max-memory`**: The maximum memory the Autoscaler may resize a Pod in this group to. Accepts any Kubernetes memory quantity, for example `"8Gi"` or `2147483648` (raw bytes).
* **`resize-timeout`**: Number of seconds to wait for a Kubernetes Pod resize to complete before considering it timed out and rolling it back.

### Validation rules

> In addition to the schema above, KubeRay validates the following requirements when IPPR is enabled for a worker group. Misconfiguration causes the cluster to be rejected.

Reviewer 2: 'cluster to be rejected' is a bit vague / unusual phrasing. Can you be more specific about what happens, for example does it trigger a validation error and prevent the RayCluster from being created/updated?

Author: Good catch, my mistake it's more specifically the Ray autoscaler that validates and raises valueerrors accordingly. https://github.com/ray-project/ray/pull/63212/commits/f4e60222e1552442413af67e647866c9e3abc2aa

1. **No CPU/memory in `rayStartParams`.** The corresponding worker group must not set `num-cpus` or `memory` in `rayStartParams`. Hard-coding logical resources there would cause Ray's view of the node's capacity to drift from the Pod's physical resources after a resize.
2. **CPU and memory requests are required.** The Ray container in the worker group must specify both `cpu` and `memory` under `resources.requests`.

> 3. **`resizePolicy.restartPolicy: NotRequired`.** The Ray container must declare a `resizePolicy` for both CPU and memory with `restartPolicy: NotRequired`, so that Kubernetes resizes the container in place rather than restarting it.

Reviewer 2: @andrewsykim @rueian Just out of curiosity, is there a reasoning behind this restriction?

Some applications (e.g. Java applications) require a container restart in order to pick up changes to resource limits. Restricting the resize policy to only `NotRequired` excludes such applications from being able to take advantage of IPPR. I'm curious if this is intentional due to a technical reason or if it was more to reduce the alpha scope?

Author: Curious about this too but I'm assuming its just a current alpha limitation. Once we confirm that I can reword RestartContainer `NotRequired` as something under the **Limitations** section.

> 3. **`resizePolicy.restartPolicy: NotRequired`.** The Ray container must declare a `resizePolicy` for both CPU and memory with `restartPolicy: NotRequired`, so that Kubernetes resizes the container in place rather than restarting it.

Reviewer 2: `NotRequired` is the default. Can you confirm if Ray requires this field to be explicitly set, or is leaving it empty ok?

Author: Confirmed leaving it empty is fine. Since it's the default I removed it from the sample yaml, and it's now explicit in the validation rules section and with a comment in the sample yaml. https://github.com/ray-project/ray/pull/63212/commits/f4e60222e1552442413af67e647866c9e3abc2aa
